hello everyone and welcome to this ask
me anything ask us anything actually my
name is Alex and I'm Riley I'm one of
the bigs but I'll teach as you had eaten
language - we both up hello marina and
hand in if you're watching on Zoom with
us on a two-lane village you can type
into the and we can see your comments
popping up high saya and Paulo if you're
watching on YouTube of course use the
live chat we're going to try to get your
questions from both areas as we go so
I'll just run through really quickly the
plan we will try to give some
organization to be session but feel free
to ask plenty of questions already
coming so we're going to start like
talking about reading and listening
Felisa if you have a question about its
meaning you can put it in now then
speaking and writing at the end
everything else that we can deal with
please feel free to jump in whenever you
like and I'll have a look on Zoom here
Farley's gonna have a look on YouTube
and we'll just go back yeah all right
let's go fullscreen okay so I'll take
this first question from hands up he
says I have three questions let's take
the first one is three months enough to
significantly improve and hence that has
given the example writing six to seven
point five so hands are three months I
think it would be honestly would be
quite difficult to jump a band and a
half in only three months from six to
seven as a lot of you know is a big jump
from six point five to seven even that
is a big jump so it really is a matter
of finding out your weaknesses and
eliminating those weaknesses so you are
going to have to invest a lot of time in
yes practicing oils but also just
missing your language skills so you know
getting rid of those arrows like article
errors the errors building vocabulary
7.5 you need a big range of vocabulary
big range of Grandma yeah feedback
reading a lot rising a lot coming to
live classes yeah it's possible but I
would not say that it's easy in just
three months I would say more like yeah
maybe it also depends on how much time
you invest right so if you're studying
for like enough number of hours Oh
honestly it the first from person to
person but yeah I agree with Alice that
three months would be tough not
impossible but you'd have to commit a
lot of time and effort to be able to go
up one band I just saw a question about
the computer-based exam is it possible
to come back and check the questions
again so in listening and reading yeah
so I recently did take the
computer-based test and yeah for the
reading section and for the listening
section you can go back and check the
only differences for the reading section
you can check your answers whenever you
want but the listening section they'll
give you some time at the end of each
part and also at the end of the section
and that's when you can go back and
check you honestly you can check any
time but obviously when there's an audio
going on you want to answer you want to
focus on answering the questions so it's
just not checking or going back and
forth them because you miss you miss the
questions that you know they're playing
the audio for so towards the end I they
give you like a mini mini yes three
minutes right at the end of listening a
little breaks oh yeah so that should be
enough it's time for reading you can go
back and forth for the whole yeah do you
want to take on YouTube questions sure
okay for similar to Hamza Shama is
asking as
she needs to improve her reading from
5.5 to 6.5 yeah I think we'd give the
same advice just keep practicing you can
go to e to language comm where we have a
lot of practice materials for you so you
won't have to find you will have to find
resources online some kind of torture
you can truly rely on those so we have
some good quality materials on the
website and even here on YouTube just
recently we put out a video of that
strategy a different kind of strategy
and a lot of people have told me that
that really helped them so if you go
back a few videos I think it was a start
of January that we put that up called um
IELTS reading super strategy something
like that with me I would recommend
having a look at that because for a lot
of people for a lot of people you learn
one strategy in reading and that one
strategy does not work for everyone you
do need to try a couple of others and
the strategy that I have in that video
it's up for free by the way everyone can
see it I've had really good success with
it and a lot of students also alright
let's see so I can see Paulo your
question about rioting I'm going to come
to writing in a little bit Mohammed is
asking the eternal question capital
letter can I use capital letters or
small letters in listening and reading
computer-based tests I know there is a
lot of conflicting evidence a lot of
conflicting information about this our
advice from e2 is for the paper-based
test all capitals is okay for the
computer-based test follow
capitalization convention so if it's
somebody's name if it's a country a day
of the week capital letter at the start
small it is after that just follow it up
that rule so in the reading section I
don't know if you guys know this but you
can actually copy paste answers so if
there are names of places or something
like that you can just know
at the passage and they'll usually be
capitalized they're the only thing you
have to be careful about as if they're
using it on the start of a sentence
remember to capitalize the first letter
sorry guys scrolling through your
questions yeah trying to find the
reading and listening question so Priya
is asking I have problems in reading and
CQ type questions please give me some
tips no choice difficult to do very
difficult to produce as well the test
writers spend a lot of time agonizing
over how to do a question well maybe you
can speak to that look before
look out for so when they're making the
questions they really focus on using
plausible distractors or answer options
that are incorrect basically so they'll
use options that have been mentioned in
the reading text mentioned in the
listening text but what you should pay
attention to is the meaning right so if
you get the meaning right then even if
they use synonyms or they paraphrase
something you'll still be able to get
the answer so I know we tell you to like
learn us focus on book half but frame CQ
questions it's important to focus on
meaning because you will see a lot of
the same words used in the in the other
instructions but they might not
necessarily be correct you know that's
something you should look out for
because they do that pretty often yeah
and it's not really a matter of a shriek
or a hack you know it does come down to
understanding what you're reading and in
some cases you need to slow down
particularly multiple-choice don't sort
of rush and match you definitely don't
match other the word they're the words
that's the end you know usually there's
the word there's the word that is not
the answer
so be conscious of that you know the
test writers are smart
and that they don't make it so easy and
IELTS reading really does test your
comprehension you know it's not a test
that you can trick so just spend that
time if you've got a couple of weeks
months before your test build up you're
okay we did a video on that a while ago
also how to build up your vocab why it's
important that's another one you can
find on on the YouTube channel as well
multiple listening sometimes you know
they'll say something they'll be like oh
this was the reason why I thought of
doing that initially but then and then
they'll just you know talk about
something else
so that happens pretty often as well so
be careful for those I think we did
discuss those in online courses yes I'm
pretty sure that tonight's listening
class has a focus on that often we we do
particularly thing we spend a lot of
time looking at the questions looking at
the scripts to uncover the destructors
how they're working so if you're an into
subscribe I'll be sure to come to the
listening class tonight listening
classes every Friday Melbourne time 6
p.m. there's one from one tree asking
about awesome they're asking about list
of headings so I think you're talking
about match headings and then my
favorite topic how do you do it
yeah how does a great question and that
video it really deals with that but when
you're doing the match hitting type of
question this is an example where
skimming and scanning it's not going to
work for you match the heading to the
paragraph unfortunately you have to read
the whole paragraph and I would do that
first
I'd read paragraph a first I wouldn't
even look at the headings yet paragraph
a and think to myself what is that about
so if slyly said to me what what did you
just read as I said it was about what a
couple of words and then I looked
through the headings from top to bottom
really slowly thinking yes was it
no that wasn't it or I don't know I have
to go back but hopefully just read it
once
I've read all the headings choose one
maybe choose two you can't decide and
then I will also look at the other
question types so after the headings
there might be true false not given
there might be multiple choice I also
would check in there can I find anything
from paragraph a to answer that way I
don't have to read the passage three
four or five times I'm just reading it
once but I deal with all the questions
at the same time it seems like it's
going to take forever but I promise you
it's actually a really efficient method
I recommend trying it and definitely the
first few paragraphs take a bit more
time because it's all fresh information
questions but once you get to paragraphs
si de you've got all those headings in
your mind your I think headings match
can easily go from your most hated
question type to your most beloved
question type and yeah I'm thrilled when
I see headings match other term it's a
great tip like using that opportunity to
answer the other questions does save you
a lot of time mmm okay lots of writing
questions we'll get to that in a moment
capital letters thing yes paper based
capital letters okay computer based no
followed convention so we have a
question from our cue and he's asking
other changes to the listening section
yes sorry our video on that it's coming
next week oh yeah there have been three
changes small changes yes they've
decided to call the different part of
different sections of the listening test
parts so now instead of parts because
I'm sections where everything else is
exactly the same they've just changed
the word literally that one word there's
also no example anymore in the
paper-based test and there's also no
example in the computer so if you've got
these books these Cambridge books
usually listening part one starts with
an example and then you hear it again so
that's gone now and the other theme page
numbers there's no but very very minor
changes and this just brings the
computer test and the paper test more in
line with each other perhaps we all swap
to talk about speaking IELTS speaking do
feel free to keep putting your questions
in Italy I know we've missed a lot
either keep scrolling up and down
probably one that I've seen pop up a few
times is about vocabulary
sorry I missed your name but somebody
else is the academic word list
vocabulary enough to score them seven so
I think it's essential to know the
academic word lose and you can find it
in the vocab section of course I need to
thank comments 570 words there's an
academic word list there's also one
called the new academic word list which
is much longer and you would know a lot
of those words already things like
research rely yeah sorry yeah if you've
studied at university none of those
words are going to throw you off cuz
honestly you probably have already used
most of those words the reason I made
that face is because I feel like
academic words are important that's our
topic specific word so you can't
completely rely on academic words
because they'll ask you specific
questions about let's say the
environment or health and you can use
those words to express yourself but not
like completely won't be able to express
yourself well with just those words you
know you need some more help and that
you need topic I think Alex yeah that's
the video that we did right Alison have
done a video about the vocab that you
will need so essentially to sum up you
need
three kinds of words one is the academic
word list words you will need topic
specific words and just common words
that you use like various and all sort
of words so be sure to check out that
video
I think it's called Mandy okay sorry how
can I go from 6.5 in speaking to seven
so Mohammed the good news is it's a lot
easier to go through six point five to
seven in speaking in competitive writing
and in my experience I used to be an
IELTS examine our I think a lot of it
comes down to your confidence on test
day and where do you get that confidence
that confidence comes from practicing so
you know exactly what to expect on test
day you know everything that can happen
but for example the examiner might
interrupt you while you're talking no
problem that should not throw you off
and to score Bend seven you know you
need seven in the four criteria so
fluency coherence lexical resource
grammatical range and accuracy
pronunciation
let's take fluent in coherence for
example the difference between a seven
and a six there it's about how easy it
is for you to speak so if the examiner
feels like you're panicking you're
struggling you're searching for vocab
you're repeating yourself too much that
doesn't feel like a seven a seven in the
criteria says speaks at length without
noticeable effort so I would sort of
hold on to that as your mantra as you
prepare for the test and on test a
positive attitude you want to show the
examiner this is fun and I can talk
about anything I can talk about this all
day that's the impression you want to
give to the seminar so six point five
you're very very close
you might just be missing one one thing
also you know if you can get some
feedback I can see Mohammed each
subscriber so in your package you might
have the mock test where you do a
one-on-one speaking test or you might
have a tutorial so you
to practice with your teacher your
teacher can tell you where the problem
is it might be but a cab that might be
fluent seasoned identified and work on
that so we have a question from Naveen
Philip and he's asking us how can I
improve my speaking and writing if I
don't have basically if I don't know
what or what to say I have no idea about
what the topic is to be honest they will
not ask you something very technical or
something that you need to sort of have
specialist knowledge about they'll
usually ask you about something more
general that most people have at least
heard about and you don't really need to
have you know some sort of interesting
topic so there are no points for being
original offer you know coming up with
the best ideas that's not what they are
looking for and I used to struggle with
this as well I used to think that you
know if I write some if I come up with
complex ideas my writing will be more
complex that it doesn't work that way it
even if your idea is simple and you give
reasons for it and you link the idea
with the reasons using complex
structures using like you know
subordinating conjunctions and using the
right language then you still get a high
school so don't disregard simple ideas
so when I talk about what are the major
environmental concerns of this point
right and presently so everybody will
think about global warming pollution
whatever comes to mind like I'm sure
something came to your mind right just
talk about that it doesn't have to be
anything special you know it doesn't
have to sound academic you can make it
sound academic but you know what you
know what I mean like the ideas don't
have to be of a specific type or enough
complex the language has to be come from
I hope that makes sense but yeah I mean
speaking as well I think I wouldn't
wouldn't panic that you're gonna be
asked about something you've never
although they you've got nothing to say
about you've got something to say about
everything so the topics you'll get
probably the weirdest ones are like
let's talk about let's talk about
wearing jeans or let's talk about being
on time they're very you know they're
questions that you can answer even if
you say let's talk about TV what's your
favorite TV show and you say I hate TV I
don't like never I've never seen TV in
my life
examiner is only judging your sentence
it was a nice present perfect expression
there so you don't have to say I love it
or I agree with it or I'm an expert just
just it's a language test personality
Sanjay is asking about tuners on e to
language safe particularly if you're on
YouTube you may not know on e to
language we have of course the
self-study course but we also have these
interactive live classes kind of like
this but we do more work in them their
activities and writing and reading and
we also have tutorials one on one
tutorials with our team of experts
around the world Sanjay is asking how do
I contact my tutor the tutor I've
selected so everything happens through
the platform on e to language once you
if you're a gold subscriber for example
you have three tutorials so when you've
done you might do a bit of practice
submit some writing for assessment and
then you feel like okay I'm ready to
take my tutorial by the way we go
through all of this weekly in our new
member welcomes on Monday but literally
all you do is click the tutorial button
click the day click the time tick the
box I want to work on writing I want to
work on speaking click Submit and that's
it we the system magically connects you
with a tutor who's available at that
time
and the suitable email you they'll check
your assessment history though you know
if you take the writing button they'll
go in and check you know where it was
you're writing let's have a look at it
if there's nothing there they'll tell
you how
me-sa so that we can go through it
together so yeah everything happens like
that's very very simple and if you're
having trouble we also have students
support hello at ET lgumes comm that
can help you anytime so we go on to
writing we're getting quite a few
writing question and sorry the questions
coming up can i select my tutor your
initial tutorial usually not you're
connected with someone in that time zone
but after that yes you can talk with
your tutor and also with student support
and they can help you to rebook with the
same teacher so all those kind of
questions there please get in touch
hello Annie to language calm just Vivian
Leonore the awesome team that can help
you sort out any problem that you've got
I get rising let's go okay does each new
website have any template for seven
types of essays yes Ashwin that we do we
joined a structure we essentially use
the same structure for any essay it's
not really a template it's just you know
what what's expected in an introduction
what is expected in a body paragraph
according to convention according to
everybody who writes and yes not just
the aisle so we we follow that you know
a lot of classes you'll see that all the
time all about practice materials
following that same those same steps
that doesn't mean that you memorize you
know the beginning of 25 sentences no
it's not like that but when you're in
the test yes you should think okay I've
got to write the topic symptoms I've got
to write the supporting sentence summary
sentence so yes we do have that in the
course in the life class so we have a
question from this on youtube she's
asking is it even possible to get it and
writing what can you advise to get this
high score so I got an a I recently took
the test and Alex
five yeah so it is it is possible to get
I mean I'd suggest practicing following
the structure using a lot like a variety
of different grammatical structures as
well as different sorts of words what
else also developing your idea honestly
this this can be like ten ten different
classes right because each thing that
you need to improve and it also depends
on what you're good at and what sort of
you need help with so if your teacher
would be able to help you
you know pinpoint the areas that you
need to work on you know I think the
difference between so to get to been
seven yeah it's it's often about the
accuracy the precision of your word
choice but to get from seven to eight it
becomes more about I would say two
things range and also the development of
your ideas this is something that we
talk about all the time in in the
writing class so yeah range of grammar
range of vocabulary is going to make a
difference seven to eight and then also
the difference in task response how
fully developed are your ideas so if
it's something like what are the what
are the advantages and you give a list
of like one advantages foot another
advantage is and finally this is a third
advantage that's going to that's not
going to score well to be a you've got
to say one advantage is this and then
tell me why that's an advantage how
that's an advantage give me a specific
example of how that's an advantage so we
talk about it like stretching or
extending each point you make you take
it as far as you can and we use little
questions to help trigger to help do
that but definitely get some feedback on
your writing as well either from us from
me too or if you've got a friend who's a
boxing legend get them to have a look at
your work I have to identify any areas
that you're making or anything they
misunderstand those things will
I must say there are a lot of
misconceptions about what they're
expecting in the IELTS essay so for me I
thought it had to be super academic the
way I wrote like when I was writing it
must be in the university and for my
assignments but honestly it's not like
that you have to be very specific and
you you're supposed to like give
especially when they are asking you for
your opinion you're supposed to say I
love to use first person pronouns you
have to make your opinion very clear and
you have to give specific examples you
can give examples from your place your
personal experience you can name
companies websites whatever social media
sites something that I thought was not
okay in academic writing but in the
Isles that's actually what they are
looking for so it's kind of different
from what you have been doing at uni so
that's something to keep in mind yeah
one of the I think that's your name time
for the ads I think sily is sort of
answered it there but your question is
you knowing that there's clear position
throughout the response and you're
asking what about if the question
doesn't ask me for my opinion this is a
really good question so if it's an
advantageous or disadvantages problem
solution we would tend to recommend even
if it doesn't ask for your opinion there
is no danger in including your opinion
you're not going to be marked down for
it so if it says what are the advantage
doesn't disadvantage you can still put
in like what do you think are there more
advantages or more disadvantages the
other way to look at position is that
it's it's what you state you're going to
do in the introduction so this essays
gonna talk about this this and then your
essay really does talk about this and
this in the conclusion thumbs up that
could be considered position as well but
my advice and most of our or all of our
teachers advice would be if you're not
sure should I put my opinion or not put
it in put it in because it can be the
difference
sucio question thanks for being patient
Manzi yes you do get a pen and paper in
the computer-based exam but they take
the paper off you after each section
paulo in the writing test in 60 minutes
altogether and you have to divide the
time yourself so the exam and most
people recommend tasks 120 minutes past
240 minutes
okay so we have an interesting question
from a chair
he's asking I'm going to give the
computer-based dials so do you have to
place indentation at the start of a
graph in writing for the computer-based
test I'm to this to is to do it right
but if you're doing the computer-based
test it's always better to just press
ENTER but you can use indentation as
long as you know you've used indentation
properly it's obvious that that's a
paragraph you can do that like press
ENTER and then yeah take a couple more I
think I systole is asking are there any
dramatic changes for the aisles in 2020
no the only ones I'm listening right and
they're not dramatic at all
yeah nothing yet we'll see
reach out in agree disagree can we give
a neutral as reach I think I've seen you
in some live classes so you can probably
guess my answer to these neutral ends up
and I'm not sure
what do you mean by neutral answer that
I have no opinion in that case no you
can't do that remember man seven clear
position throughout so if you are this
is also if you are not a super-strong
writer if you are around six let's say
my advice would be take a really strong
position so I hunted percent agree and
this was the first reason then the
second reason why if you are a stronger
writer maybe your seven-point-five
aiming for a you can take a nuanced not
a neutral position and probably a good
example of this would be if the question
is what did we talk about recently all
students all students should study are a
music in school do you agree or disagree
so you can 100% agree 100% disagree or
you can say I think all students should
study art a music in primary school but
in high school I think those subjects
should just be optional those should be
electives and that's an I can nuanced
position I'm not 100% yes not 100% no
but my position is absolutely clear I
haven't said I agree and I disagree or
each coin has two sides or anything
vague like that no if you are going to
be in the middle be absolutely explicit
about your view on yes and your view on
no no vagueness no over generalization
take a position a clear position
throughout but I think that that's
really hard to do you know especially
when you have only thirty minutes and
you have to think about developing all
of your ideas and Grandma vocab so alex
is right you should probably just choose
one side and make it super obvious
because if the examiner can't make out
what your opinion is what they get is
fixed right no three oh yeah so yeah I
mean it's dramatic yeah obviously your
school will go down if the examiner
feels like
you haven't you don't mentioned a
consistent position throughout the essay
and that's a huge risk that's why I
agree with Alec was don't take that risk
it's not worth if you're not there to
like you know give your opinion you just
want to get the highest score you can
and the best way to do it is either you
agree completely or you disagree because
it's really hard to give a nuanced
answer even for the best of right
doesn't minutes yeah yeah I guess that's
the way I think it's a risk are you
prepared to take that risk
expensive risks these days make sure the
examiner knows exactly exactly what you
think LDL is asking okay in an advantage
disadvantage question do you necessarily
have to pinpoint what the benefits of
drawbacks are in the introduction or can
you give a blanket statement alien
you're a beautiful writer already I can
tell sorry albian a blanket statement
like this as they will discuss the main
advantages so that blanket statement
something like that this essay will
discuss the advantages and the
disadvantages
full-stop I would avoid that kind of
really generic statement because there's
nothing in sentence it doesn't give me
anything about the topic the examiner
was just like brush over that it's like
nothing so you have to get in there even
if it's something like there there are
many advantages to taking art and music
classes in school however there are also
some problems that can arise for
children that's a better statement so
it's related to the topic it's more
specific so we have a question on
youtube from Ovid Phil and he's asking
is the conclusion part necessary in
writing task 1 we call general in both
cases ya know in academic task 1 your
conclusion is
overview so it's a it's a different
it's a different thing it's a broad
statement about overall trend stages or
differences it's not a conclusion and in
the in general inviting task one it's a
letter I not but it's yeah you're right
it's not conclusion but yeah for you
know if you want to see how it's done
tomorrow's Saturday we have task 1
classes 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. melbourne time
and the 8 p.m. class will be live on
youtube so if you are preparing for
general IELTS join Anna
dr. Anna she's amazing she'll be taking
that class otherwise if you're doing
academic come and register on each
language calm and every class we go
through the structure so you after 2
classes you could probably teach the
class yourself you will know exactly how
to put together a perfect Santos's
asking about the a2 packages is it
better to submit feedback first before
booking the one-on-one tutorial
definitely yes yeah definitely yeah
that's really the best value of your
tutorial is when you especially if
you're working on writing put in some
writing into the assessment system again
it's it's all through the platform you
click assessment you write your whatever
your time on your task 2 clicks the
minute comes through us we breathe air
we check it we look at your grammar
vocab every little bit of your writing
send it back and then with your teacher
you can go through your work you know
it's the tutorial is you and the teacher
camera microphone share your screen you
work on your document together so the
teacher can say to you hey I can see
that you've got a problem with the
development of your paragraphs let's fix
it up and then that's it 45 minutes
you'll be spent I forgive you have an
interesting question from Shelley edge
so he's I'll see what happens if I write
the essay without capitalizing anything
you would be penalized in grammar
commission yeah grandma
yeah yeah and if you're doing it on the
computer also and I know you finally
found this you have got to edit really
carefully yeah me too when I wrote the
computer back test and went back to the
start oh my god there were like missing
letters there were the same words twice
you're definitely going to make mistakes
every mistake is like a drop potential
drop in your score so save time at the
end you may need minutes
wipe your mind clean even though you
don't want to go back and read it again
you have to go back and read it again
with fresh eyes find those areas capital
letter at the start of the sentence
after the full start after the comma
space one space so be really careful in
those little errors um I've seen this
question someone I don't know the name
of that person but somebody asked will
will there be marks like those red marks
that you have inward when you misspell
something no so that literally goes
through like the whole thing look at
each and every word and like Alex said
you have to be sure to avoid any typos
or spelling errors so yeah save a lot of
time and be able to do that and when
you're preparing as well when you're
practicing particularly for
computer-based turn off spell check and
grammar check while you write of course
you can turn it back on to check at the
end but try to challenge yourself you
know there's no point if you're typing
and the computer is correcting your
spelling all the time that's a bad habit
that we all have so you know spend some
time working in test conditions if you
come to the live classes we use the chat
box as well and that's where I can I get
to see ya all those problems the
capitalization the typos so when you
type and you click Submit
there's no time to edit of course but
it's really good practice to do that
polar do we have a structure that would
work for any topic
right topic and writing a letter yeah we
do follow the same system please come
along polo - Emma's class tomorrow
neither writing task 1 general class 8
p.m. melbourne time and she'll show you
the structure there or go back to review
the live classes from the platform yeah
on e 2 language I might actually share
the screen while we just take our final
questions so this is what it looks like
when you're logged in I know you guys
want to know this well but for example
let's talk about academic course someone
asked me before is the vocab section in
the course so click on I'm logged in as
an IELTS academic student if your
general level say IELTS general and over
here in the vocab section this is where
you'll find videos word lists and also
activities building on your academic
academic word list knowledge the mock
test I think was Ashwin Sweeney just
asked me about that the mock test is
here included in some of the packages
this is a full computer-based IELTS test
reading writing listening and a
one-on-one speaking through zoom with
your teacher so Ashwin he said is it
should I take it when I'm done with
preparation so I know where I stand you
know there's a few different places you
can do it that's definitely one option
some people like to take it right at
start to see you know how they where
they need to go from here because you
get really good feedback particularly
about your writing and your speaking
it's up to you whenever you want to take
it keep in mind there are also in the
feedback feedback section here if you
want to do more speaking and more
writing so as a gold subscriber you get
to submit six tasks ones and six tasks
choose through the platform here this is
where you book your tutorials and I was
just talking about recorded classes so
if you miss the live class and we know
the times not suitable for everyone
you can come back for paint subscribers
we people of the last two weeks in this
library here so you can what was the
class I mentioned before tasks if you
wanted to go back and look at what the
IELTS writing task 1 from earlier this
week you just go here click on that the
video pops up you can watch the whole
class you can fast-forward to get the
full sample at the end so this is a
really handy thing ok let's take a
couple more questions and then thanks
Paulo go to bed 3:00 a.m. oh my god
thanks for coming that's great we have a
question from immense I think those are
your initials in writing tasks to agree
disagree question if we agree or
disagree then both body paragraphs have
to discuss the same view yeah agree or
disagree then both parents have to
discuss same view yes same idea
no right yeah I think if you're saying
if I let's say a hundred percent agree
with something then yeah your body can
be this is the first reason 41 and this
is the second reason yeah what do you -
yeah that's fine but do you need
different paragraphs for different ideas
so don't extend you argue in the second
paragraph you know you need like
separate ideas for two different
paragraphs and sorry
pooja I see you in the chat box I missed
your question have it have another go in
there sad face scrolling back well I'm
just waiting for that question I'll just
let you know this on the screen so this
is tomorrow live on YouTube and
as always all these classes are only two
language but if you're not a member yet
and you want to see what happens in a
live class then we come along a p.m.
Melbourne time so make sure you check
that in your own local time dr. Anna is
one of our amazing teachers dr. Anna can
change your life in the tutorial she's
helped people go from been six to seven
point five from been six point five to
been eight she really knows her stuff so
come along to that on YouTube if you're
an e2 subscriber even a free subscriber
you can join the class in the normal way
by registering on the platform
okay pooja how do I get ideas good
question I'm not able to get relevant
ideas
well rioting and the time for planning
runs out fast I run out of time okay so
which I know that you've come along to
the live classes so I'm hoping that in
that way you know every week we have six
writing classes so that's that's one
thing you you have a lot more ideas than
you probably realize the questions do
those questions have recycled quite a
lot so you know it's very likely when
you've done a lot of preparation as you
have that on test day you'll get
something that you're fairly familiar
with the other thing is finally
mentioned you don't need heaps of ideas
and you don't need some expert insight
you really just need two ideas per essay
and then the rest of the essay the real
meat of the essay is how you develop
those ideas how you support your viewer
whatever the point is with reasons with
examples with stuff that you've
experienced in your life and as you
would know that's what we're doing in
the live classes a lot we work on what's
my view on this and then why do I think
that how does this happen what's the
impact of this one specific example to
support this view so I think we do you
might be suffering from just lack of
confidence I think you would probably be
surprised how much you know when it
comes to the real test day
another way I feel like Alex and I have
discussed this I don't think because we
get this question from students quite a
bit another way to do it is to think
about
so obviously Alex's way is really a
really good fitted as as a starting
point if you think of a personal example
you can also use that when you're
explaining your point right so maybe you
sort of build up from your personal
experience to more general ideas to
build your paragraph the other ways you
can talk you can think about how this
affects work your personal work
experiences or you know how it affects
the global economies if you think in
that aspect you can think about
relationships with people families you
can think about a few different things
like that and we'll probably do a video
about yeah so thanks for that question
pooja but I'll just answer your question
really quickly because tomorrow I think
your question just relates to the rules
of articles you are asking why is there
off before a manufacturing technique
that's just because technique is a
singular countable noun
it needs an article before it it's too
late for you I know about next week in
our writing task 2 class on Tuesday
we're going to be working on articles in
particular so maybe come along anyway
even though you're tested tomorrow but
the art is there because like a pin or a
woman before singular now you need an
article or you need something like my
quick answer to that okay one last
question all right lucky laughs so this
is I'm assuming this is for the
paper-based test so while I was asking
in the writing section in case I forget
a word in the middle of a sentence and
can I put an arrow and write the word
above the sentence yep
yeah is that okay yeah okay
very common you wouldn't believe the
mess but some people jeez that's fine
yeah I mean try to keep it as neat as
you can feel yeah feel free if that
happens often though you might want to
consider doing the computer-based test
because there you can actually edit it
so yeah if you if your typing speeds
good you might be better off doing the
computer-based test Sonya for the answer
to your question I'll come along to
Sunday's class or review the class from
Thursday and Tuesday everybody tasks to
about double idea paragraphs your
question was kind of about going over
the word limit going over 300 words it
doesn't matter totally fine and short
answer is yes double idea paragraphs
okay all right we're going to wrap it up
but I'll put on the screen here if we've
missed your question and I know that we
have a lot of you but you can get in
touch with us through hello and each
language comm a lot of this stuff I've
mentioned is on our website language
comm you can sign up there for free when
you join for free you have access to
quite a lot of stuff you have access to
some of our writing classes which are
yeah one of the best things that we can
help you with on e to if you're a paid
member then you get access to everything
all the lower classes all the recordings
plus often feedback you can book
tutorial so yeah come and have a look
around see if you like it join the
classes and be sure to tune in tomorrow
with dr. Anna or general tasks one if
you are doing academic task 1 we also
have a free class but you've just got a
jump onto e to language come to sign up
yeah send us an email with your question
if with mister otherwise we'll see you
thanks thanks thanks for coming along
you guys especially in an hour it's 3:00
in the morning you know thank you
everyone and good luck with your study
keep working hard
think positive and good luck to those
who have that test this weekend please
come back
let us know how you guys both misty-eyed